 ## reasons for creating visuals using data
 1. Exploratory analysis
 2. Explanatory analysis.
 
 ## 1. Exploratory analysis:
 - It is done behind the scenes, to look for the relationships (patterns) in data.
 - Connect to questions we asked about data after collecting it.
 - Doesn't need to be perfect, as only us are the consumers of these plots and only our questions will  be answered using them
 
## 2. Explanatory analysis:
- It is done when you are providing your results for others. These visualizations need to provide you the emphasis necessary to convey your message. They should be accurate, insightful, and visually appealing.

## The five steps of the data analysis process:
1. Extract the data: Obtain the data from a spreadsheet, SQL, the web, etc.
2. Clean the data: fix missing values, determine which columns to keep, round values, or perform some other tricks to get the data in a way that you can analyze it.

_**note**_ in this step, we could use exploratory visuals to find the correlation of each column of the data to decide which variabls have an effect on our insights or the output.

4. Explore the data: Here we use exploratory visuals (The visuals used for cleaning, exploring, and analyzing the data are part of exploratory visuals. The Visualization here and in the previous step don't need to be super pretty or super clean in their messages as their are our own plots only to determine what is going on ths data.

5. Analyze the data: Here we might use either exploratory or explanatory visuals after choosing thr best analysis for answering our questions. examples: predicting sales, fraud, and home prices

6. Share the insights: When we find an insight to share the visuals used for sharing these insights are part of explanatory visuals.

## Visual encoding:
Mapping from the data to display elements. Display elements include position on the x-axis or y-axis, the size of points or charts, the shape of points, texture, angke, length, etc..

**_The types of visuals patterns for the best information's understanging _**

for quantitative data -->length (position along an axis), length.

## Chart Junk:
